# Capstone_Bellabeat_Case_Study

# Welcome to my data analysis of the Bellabeat data analysis case study!

# 1. Case Study Summary

Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women,
and meet different characters and team members. This successful company uses smart products to analyze the usage of their products in order to gain valuable insights into how smart products using people use their smart products. The purpose or aim of this case study is to produce valuable insights in order to make data-driven business decisions for Bellabeat's marketing strategy using trends found within the smart products data. 

The data includes multiple datasets focused on their activity, sleep, stress, and reproductive health. This data helps people make better, smarter, and healthier decisions which ultimately can improve their lifestyle. 

Case Study Questions/Objectives:
- Find trends in smart device usage
- How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
- How could these trends help influence Bellabeat's marketing strategy?

Approaching the Case Study Steps:
- :question: **Ask**,
- :clipboard: **Prepare**,
- :hammer_and_wrench: **Process**,
- :bar_chart: **Analyze**, 
- :mailbox_with_mail: **Share**, and 
- :muscle: **Act**

# 2. Ask 
:briefcase: 2.1 Business Task Summary 

Identify trends in how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices in order to gain insights and apply them to making data-driven business decisions for Bellabeat's marketing strategy. In essence, what is the problem to solve? How do the consumers use the smart devices? What features are most used? How to apply these to Bellabeat's marketing strategy?

:busts_in_silhouette: 2.2 Considering the stakeholders
- Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s co-founder and Chief Creative Officer
- Sando Mur: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder; a key member of the Bellabeat executive team
- Bellabeat marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts responsible for collecting, analyzing, and
reporting data that helps guide Bellabeat’s marketing strategy

# 3. Prepare 
:bar_chart: 3.1 Dataset used
The specific dataset used is a public dataset from Kaggle which contains a personal fitness tracker from thirty Fitbit users. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal
tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. It includes information
about daily activity, steps, and heart rate that can be used to explore users’ habits. 

:lock: 3.2 Data Accessibility and Privacy
The dataset is public and can be easily accessed via this link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit. The owner published this dataset in order for anyone to download and use and was inspired by human temporal routine behavioral analysis and pattern recognition. By copyright law, one can copy, edit, and share using this dataset with no permission needed. 

:information_source: 3.3 Dataset Information

The content of this dataset was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. Individual reports can be parsed by export session ID (column A) or timestamp (column B). Variation between output represents the use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors/preferences.

:white_check_mark: 3.4 Data Verification/Data Integrity 

This dataset zip file is a combination of 18 CSV files. Each file represents quantitative data by the smart device. The data is long and wide as each row is a one-time point per subject (each subject will have multiple rows). Every user has a unique ID and multiple rows of tracked data by day and time. 

Sorting, filtering, cleaning, and merging were required in order to observe and verify the attributes of each dataset. 

This data has a sample size of 30 users with no demographic information, therefore, a sampling bias was encountered. It is uncertain whether the sample size was representative of the whole population. The dataset is also limited to a survey of only 2 months long. 

# 4. Process 
:hammer_and_wrench: 4.

# 5. Analyze 
:bar_chart: 5. 

# 6. Share
:mailbox_with_mail: 6. 

# 7. Act
:muscle: 7. 